TOEFL iBT Sample  
Reading  
Cougars  
 
(1) 
Originating in the highland areas of Brazil about 300,000 years 
ago, the cougar--otherwise known as the puma or mountain lion 
--is one of the largest cats in the Americas, second only to the 
jaguar. Despite popular belief, the animal is not a “big cat.”  
This is because it is smaller than the biggest members of the cat 
family, such as lions or tigers. Likewise, unlike those big cats, 
the cougar cannot emit an ear-piercing roar. Nevertheless, the 
cougar is an excellent hunter that can bring down prey--such as 
moose--that are several times its size.  
 
(2) 
 
Cougars live in nearly every type of climate in the Americas, 
except the arctic. Indeed, of all the large predators in the 
Western Hemisphere, it has the widest range. This is evident in 
that cougar populations exist in places as far apart as Patagonia, 
the Sonoran Desert and the Yukon. With its easy adaptability to 
various weather and terrain, prey abundance    is the primary 
factor in whether a specific region can support cougars. 
Secondary factors include thick vegetation or rock cover, both 
for hunting and, for females, to hide kittens.   
 
 
(3) 
 
Cougar habitats dwindled substantially with the coming of 
European settlers to the Americas and their expansion from 
coastal to inland areas. Since the cougars preyed on settler 
livestock, the animals were considered pests--so much so that 
American states and Canadian provinces began putting bounties 
on the cats. Hunters and others capitalized on these by 
exterminating the animals at will. Aggravating this mass killing 
were myths circulating about the cougars being dangerous to 
humans. These myths persisted despite the fact that the cats are 
human-avoidant and so rarely attack people. Cougars learn to 
hunt from within a learned set of prey, one in which humans are 
not included.  
 
(4) 
 
 
[] It was only in the 1960s that attitudes toward the cougar began 
to change, and unregulated destruction of the animals was ended. 
[] This included rescinding the bounties in the United States and 
Canada that had led to the virtual eradication of the cats in the 
eastern parts of North America. [X]Eventually, cougar 
populations recovered to a level that allowed limited and 
licensed sport hunting of the cat. [] 
 
(5) 
 
Even so, the surviving cougar populations were fragmented. 
This had a negative impact on gene diversity within these 
populations and cat health conditions.  This is particularly acute 
for very small cougar populations. The Florida Panther, a type of 
cougar, is a case in point. By the first decade of the 21st century, 
the cat had dwindled to a population of about 160. Although 
strongly protected by law, the lack of genetic diversity in such a 
small population resulted in higher rates of infection, heart 
defects, kinked tails and dramatically lower sperm count.  These 
are more serious enemies to the survival of this cat population 
than human encroachment.  
 
 
 
(6) 
 
The population fragmentation also degraded the critical role that 
males play between populations. Female cougars are philopatric: 
they normally remain in or near the territory of their birth. 
Moreover, studies have shown that female cougars are 
extremely reluctant to cross highways. In contrast to philopatric 
females, male cougars are natural gene dispersers that will 
traverse all sorts of artificial structures or habitats, such as roads 
or farmlands. This is owing to the fact that males must leave the 
territories of their mothers to secure one of their own. Alongside 
this, and for breeding purposes, an adult male cougar territory 
will overlap those of several females. Males are more likely to 
travel long distances between cougar populations to find these 
ideal territories and, in the process, enhance the opportunities for 
gene diversity.  
(7) 
 
With this in mind, conservationists have stressed the need to 
develop safe, natural terrain pathways for cougar males. The 
pathways would enable them to move more easily and safely 
from one population to another. This may or may not mean the 
setting aside of certain land corridors for cougars. As a side 
benefit, on such lands, other forms of wildlife could flourish. At 
minimum, and easiest to implement, would be simply allowing 
the cats to move through rural or semi-rural human habitats 
unmolested.  
 
(8) 
 
Yet, the conservationists’ goal of more natural pathways will 
continue to conflict with North American livestock owners. 
Many of them are convinced that cougars passing through their 
lands will result in high numbers of lost livestock. This fear may 
in fact be ungrounded, since far more livestock are lost to 
disease or weather than to cougar attacks.  Even so, any creation 
of land corridors for cougars would have to entail educating 
stakeholders such these livestock owners—and the general 
public—on the activities and environmental needs of cougars.  
------------- 
 
 
1. Why does the author mention “ear-piercing roar” in 
paragraph 1? 
 
(A) To explain how the cougar is similar to a lion  
(B) To illustrate a prominent feature of a species  
(C) To provide an overview of big cat activities   
(D) To show how sounds can act as a warnings  
 
2. The phrase “several times” in the passage is closest in 
meaning to  
 
(A) multiple occasions  
(B) numerous locations  
(C) frequency of an event  
(D) degrees of difference  
 
3.  The word “evident” in the passage is closest in meaning to  
 
 
(A) clear  
(B) realistic  
(C) judgmental  
(D) insistent  
 
4. Which of the following sentences best expresses the 
essential information in the highlighted sentence in 
paragraph 2? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information.  
 
 
(A) Prey abundance is critical for cougars.   
(B) Some environmental factors outweigh others.  
(C) Virtually all climates are habitable in some way.  
(D) Flexibility is the key to survival for all animals.  
 
5. The phrase “at will” in the passage refers to  
 
 
(A) putting 
(B) exterminating  
(C) aggravating  
(D) circulating  
 
6. The word “rescinding” in the passage is closest in meaning 
to  
 
(A) withdrawing  
(B) resolving  
(C) impacting  
(D) assessing  
 
 
7. According to the passage, why is the belief that cougars 
are dangerous to humans not correct?  
 
(A) They lack the size and strength to harm humans.  
(B) They only prey upon specific types of creatures.  
(C) They learn that armed humans can hurt them.  
(D)  They rarely persist if a first attack fails.  
 
8. According to the passage, which of the following is most 
likely to occur among Florida Panthers? 
 
(A) Genetic dispersal  
(B) Physical abnormalities  
(C) Kinked ears  
(D) Human encroachment  
 
 
9. Which of the following statements is supported by the 
nature of female cougars mentioned in paragraph 6? 
 
(A) Having kittens causes females to seek ideal terrain.  
(B) Males and females stay together when traveling.  
(C) Male cougars remain near their territories of birth.  
(D) Females will usually not range as far as males do.  
 
 
 
 
10. Where does paragraph 6 indicate that male cougars can 
be found in relationship to female cougars? 
 
(A) Inside their mothers’ territories  
(B) Within overlapping farmlands  
(C) In intersecting  pieces of land  
(D) By remote natural structures  
 
 
 
11. What does the author conclude about natural pathways 
between fragmented cougar populations?  
 
 
(A) They are getting bigger due to land set-asides.  
(B) They are useless without more gene diversity.   
(C) They are becoming easier for animals to use.  
(D) They are a long-term survival necessity.  
 
 
12. Conservationists have suggested all of the following as 
regards land management EXCEPT  
 
(A) Showing how many types of wildlife would  gain 
advantages  
(B)  Explaining how changed policies would lower costs  
(C)  Allowing cougars to move through places unharmed  
(D) Protecting some lands from human usage  
 
 
13. The word “ungrounded” in the passage is closest in 
meaning to  
 
(A) inevitable  
(B) intractable  
(C) unverified   
(D) unobserved  
 
 
14. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the 
following sentence can be added to the passage 
 
Without these incentives and, coupled with other conservation 
efforts, American cougar populations rose to a level that allowed 
limited and licensed sport hunting the cat. 
 
 
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
 
Select Sources 
 
Cougar: Ecology and Conservation, Maurice Hornocker and 
Sharon Negri  
Forest Cats of North America, Jerry Kobalenko  
 
http://www.humanesociety.org/animals/cougars/tips/solving_pro
blems_cougars.html 
http://www.mountainlion.org/cal_ch3.asp 
 
http://www.azgfd.gov/i_e/ee/lessons/lion/2_student.pdf 
 
http://www.env.gov.bc.ca/wld/documents/cougar.htm 
 
 
http://www.cougarfund.org/naturalhistory/range/ 
 
http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/extinction-
countdown/2012/06/14/cougars-returning-midwest-after-more-
than-100-years/ 
 
 
http://www.defenders.org/mountain-lion/basic-facts 
 
 
http://animals.nationalgeographic.com/animals/mammals/mount
ain-
lion/?rptregcta=reg_free_np&rptregcampaign=20131016_rw_m
embership_n1p_us_se_c1# 
 
http://www.natgeotv.com/za/american-cougar/videos/cougar-
night-hunt 
 
[END]