https://www.facebook.com/themainichi/ July 12, 2026
Japan enacts law to establish disaster management
agency
 mainichi.jp/english/articles/20260713/p2g/00m/0na/033000c
(Mainichi Japan)
This photo taken on July 13, 2026, shows a House of Councillors plenary session in
Tokyo. (Kyodo)
TOKYO (Kyodo) -- Japan's parliament on Monday enacted a law to establish a disaster management agency that
will oversee crisis response and prepare measures to reduce damage.
The new agency, eyed for launch in November, will be under direct Cabinet supervision, with the post of disaster
management minister to be created to assist the prime minister.
The disaster management minister will be authorized to make recommendations to other ministries and agencies,
and those whose efforts are deemed insufficient will be obliged to respect the minister's recommendations.
The agency, to be headquartered in Tokyo with up to 352 personnel, will consist of four departments handling
disaster response, local disaster management, prevention planning and comprehensive policy.
The move is part of the country's efforts to deal with potential megaquakes along the Japan Trench and Chishima
Trench, the Nankai Trough or directly beneath the Tokyo metropolitan area.
The government will open two regional bureaus in fiscal 2027 or later to enhance coordination with local
governments.
Since a number of local governments have expressed a desire to host the agency's regional bureaus, their
locations and functions are still subject to discussion.
Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi's Cabinet approved bills related to the establishment of the agency in March,
following its endorsement in December of the basic policy on its creation.
Setting up the agency was an initiative spearheaded by former Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba, who established
the preparation office shortly after taking office in October 2024.
It will mark the first launch of an agency directly under Cabinet supervision since the establishment of the Digital
Agency in September 2021.
1/1